content/en/legal/privacy-policy.md, before:

---
title: "MetalBear Privacy Policy | Data Use & User Rights"
description: "MetalBear collects, uses, and protects your personal data. Understand your rights and our commitment to privacy on our cloud platform."
lead: "MetalBear Privacy Policy"
tags:
  - legal
images: []
date: 2022-10-31T06:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2025-08-10T06:00:00+00:00
draft: false
weight: 50
contributors: []
---

# MetalBear Cloud Privacy Policy

**Last Updated:** July 31, 2025

This privacy policy ("Privacy Policy") governs how we, **MetalBear Tech Ltd.** (together, “MetalBear,” “we,” “our” or “us”) use, collect, and store Personal Data we collect or receive from or about you ("you") in connection with cloud-based platform services provided on <https://app.metalbear.co/> and our website available at <https://metalbear.co/> (together with the services, the “Site”) such as in the following use cases:

**(i)** When you browse, make use of, or interact with, our Site:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**a.** When you create an account and when you log in  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**b.** When you purchase or test our products and/or services  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**c.** When you publish reviews  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**d.** When you complete a survey  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**e.** When you contact us (e.g. customer support, need help, submit a request)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**f.** When you submit your job application  

**(ii)** When we acquire your Personal Data from third-party sources (such as lead-generation companies)  
**(iii)** When we use the Personal Data of our customers (e.g. contact details)  
**(iv)** When we use the Personal Data of our resellers, distributors, agents and/or finders (e.g. contact details)  
**(v)** When we use the Personal Data of our service providers (e.g. contact details)

We greatly respect your privacy, which is why we make every effort to provide a platform that would live up to the highest user privacy standards. Please read this Privacy Policy carefully, so you can understand our practices and your rights in relation to personal data.

“Personal Data” or “Personal Information” means any information that can be used, alone or together with other data, to uniquely identify any living human being and any information deemed as Personally Identifiable Information by privacy laws.

**Important note:** Nothing in this Privacy Policy is intended to limit in any way your statutory right, including your rights to a remedy or means of enforcement.

This Privacy Policy can be updated from time to time and, therefore, we ask you to check back periodically for the latest version. If we implement significant changes to the use of your Personal Data in a manner different from that stated at the time of collection, we will notify you by posting a notice on our Site or by other means. By using our Site, you agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy and to any collection, processing, and sharing of your Personal Data for the purposes detailed below. If you do not agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy, please do not enter or make any use of our Site.

---

## 1. CONSENT TO PERSONAL DATA DISCLOSURE AND CONSEQUENCES OF NON-DISCLOSURE

You are not obligated to provide us with Personal Data under any legal requirement. Any Personal Data you provide us, is given with your consent and your intention to use the Site. However, if you refuse to disclose the complete information or details requested, which are necessary for the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy, we may not be able to provide you with our services. Your use and/or registration for the Site indicate your consent to this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree to the terms set forth in this Privacy Policy, you are requested not to use the Site.

---

## 2. WHAT INFORMATION WE COLLECT, WHY WE COLLECT IT, AND HOW IT IS USED

### 2.(i) We Process the Following Personal Information:

**a.** Information provided when you register to the Site.  
**b.** Information provided when we process your job application.  
**c.** Information automatically collected.  
**d.** Information You Provide Directly to Us.  
**e.** Contact Information.  
**f.** Information from other sources.  
**g.** Information we collect from online interactions.

### 2.(ii) We Process Your Personal Information for the Following Purposes:

**a.** To create an account, log in and make use of the Site.  
**b.** For Administrative Purposes.  
**c.** For Recruitment and Employment.  
**d.** To Market the Site.  
**e.** Security purposes.  
**f.** De-identified and Aggregated Information Use.  
**g.** Cookies and Similar Technologies.  
**h.** For the purpose of sending information and updates.

---

## 3. HOW WE PROTECT AND RETAIN YOUR INFORMATION

### 3.(i) Security  
We have implemented appropriate technical, organizational and security measures designed to protect your Personal Data. However, please note that we cannot guarantee that the information will not be compromised as a result of unauthorized penetration to our servers. As the security of information depends in part on the security of the computer, device or network you use to communicate with us and the security you use to protect your user IDs and passwords, please make sure to take appropriate measures to protect this information. If you have any questions regarding security in the service or about confidentiality, you may contact us at **privacy@metalbear.co**.

### 3.(ii) Retention of your Personal Data  
Your information will be stored until we delete our records, and we proactively delete your Personal Information, or if you send a valid deletion request. Please note that in some circumstances we may store your information for longer periods of time, for example (i) where we are required to do so in accordance with legal, regulatory, tax or accounting requirements, or (ii) for us to have an accurate record of your dealings with us in the event of any complaints or challenges, and/or (iii) if we reasonably believe there is a prospect of litigation relating to your information or dealings.

---

## 4. HOW WE SHARE YOUR PERSONAL DATA

In addition to the recipients described above, we may share your Personal Data as follows:

**4.a** With our business partners with whom we jointly offer products or services. We may also share Personal Data with our affiliated companies and other third parties.

**4.b** We may use third party service providers to process your information for the purposes outlined above, including, without limitation:  
- With cloud service providers for hosting purposes;  
- With email providers, marketing, CRM, automation tools other similar tool providers and/or sales dialer software;  
- With SparkHire as a hiring management platform, to facilitate and manage recruitment processes;  
- With websites and web content creation platforms in order to help us manage our Site;  
- With analytic companies, in order to help us understand and analyze information we collect;  
- With billing companies.

**4.c** To the extent necessary, with regulators, courts or competent authorities, to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules (including, without limitation, federal, state or local laws), and requests of law enforcement, regulatory and other governmental agencies or if required to do so by court order.

**4.d** If, in the future, we sell or transfer, or we consider selling or transferring, some or all of our business, shares or assets to a third party, we will disclose your Personal Data to such third party (whether actual or potential) in connection with the foregoing events.

**4.e** In the event that we are acquired by, or merged with, a third party entity, or in the event of bankruptcy or a comparable event, we reserve the right to transfer, disclose or assign your Personal Data in connection with the foregoing events.

**4.f** Where you have provided your consent to us sharing or transferring your Personal Data (e.g., where you provide us with marketing consents or opt-in to optional additional services or functionality).

---

## 5. YOUR PRIVACY RIGHTS

You have the right to access to your Personal Data held by us. In certain cases, in accordance with applicable law, we may refuse to provide you with your Personal Data.

You have the right to request the rectification or the deletion of inaccurate Personal Data about you. We will promptly review your request and notify you of the actions taken, if any. You can exercise your rights by contacting us at **privacy@metalbear.co**. You may use an authorized agent to submit a request on your behalf if you provide the authorized agent written permission signed by you. You can also submit your request by a legal guardian.

To protect your privacy, we may take steps to verify your identity before fulfilling your request. Subject to legal and other permissible considerations, we will make every reasonable effort to honor your request promptly in accordance with applicable law or inform you if we require further information.

Marketing emails – opt-out: You may choose not to receive marketing email of this type by sending a single email with the subject “BLOCK” to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please note that the email must come from the email account you wish to block OR if you receive an unwanted email from us, you can use the unsubscribe link found at the bottom of the email to opt out of receiving future emails, and we will process your request within a reasonable time after receipt.

---

## 6. USE BY CHILDREN

We do not offer our products or services for use by children and, therefore, we do not knowingly collect information from, and/or about children under the age of 18. If you are under the age of 18, do not provide any information to us without the involvement of a parent or a guardian. In the event that we become aware that you provide information in violation of applicable privacy laws, we reserve the right to delete it. If you believe that we might have any such information, please contact us at **support@metalbear.co**.

---

## 7. INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA

In order to run our business and provide our Site to you, we may transfer Personal Data to certain countries around the world, including to our affiliates and service providers, many of whom are located outside of your jurisdiction. Therefore, your Personal Data may be processed in countries with privacy laws that are different from privacy laws in your country. Whenever Personal Data is transferred internationally, we ensure it is protected.

---

## 8. INTERACTION WITH THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS

We enable you to interact with third party Sites, mobile software applications and products or services that are not owned or controlled by us (each a “Third Party Service”). We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Third Party Services. Please be aware that Third Party Services can collect Personal Data from you. Accordingly, we encourage you to read the terms and conditions and privacy policies of each Third Party Service.

---

## 9. LOG FILES

We use log files. We use such information to analyze trends, administer the Site, track users’ movement around the Site, and gather demographic information.

---

## 10. ANALYTIC TOOLS

**Plausible.** The Site uses a tool called “Plausible” to collect information about use of the Site. Plausible collects information such as how often users visit this Site, what pages they visit when they do so, and what other websites they used prior to coming to this Site. We use the information we get from Plausible to maintain and improve the Site and our services. Plausible’s ability to use and share information collected by Plausible about your visits to this Site is restricted by the Plausible Terms of Service, available at <https://plausible.io/terms>, and Plausible Privacy Policy, available at <https://plausible.io/privacy> and the Data policy available at <https://plausible.io/data-policy>.

**PostHog.** The Site uses a tool called “PostHog” to collect information about use of the Site. PostHog collects information such as how often users visit this Site and what pages they visit when they do so. We use the information we get from PostHog to maintain and improve the Site and our services. PostHog’s ability to use and share information collected by PostHog about your visits to this Site is restricted by the PostHog Terms of Service, available at <https://posthog.com/terms>, and Privacy Notice, available at <https://posthog.com/privacy>. We reserve the right to remove or add new analytic tools.

---

## 11. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS APPLICABLE UNDER CALIFORNIA PRIVACY LAW

**California Privacy Rights:** California Civil Code Section 1798.83 permits our customers who are California residents to request certain information regarding our disclosure of Personal Information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes. To make such a request, please send an email to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please note that we are only required to respond to one request per customer each year.

**Our California Do Not Track Notice:** Do Not Track (“DNT”) is a privacy preference that users can set in certain web browsers. Please note that we do not respond to or honor DNT signals or similar mechanisms transmitted by web browser, but we may allow third parties, such as companies that provide us with analytics tools, to collect personally identifiable information about an individual consumer’s online activities over time and across different web sites when a consumer uses the services.

**Deletion Of Content From California Residents:** If you are a California resident under the age of 18 and a registered user, California Business and Professions Code Section 22581 permits you to remove content or Personal Information you have publicly posted. To remove, please send an email to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please be aware that after removal you will not be able to restore removed content. In addition, such removal does not ensure complete or comprehensive removal of the content or Personal Information you have posted and that there may be circumstances in which the law does not require us to enable removal of content.

---

## 12. CONTACT US

If you have any questions, concerns or complaints regarding our compliance with this notice and the data protection laws, or if you wish to exercise your rights, we encourage you to first contact us at **privacy@metalbear.co**.

Commit message:

Privacy Policy page meta description update

content/en/legal/privacy-policy.md, after:

---
title: "MetalBear Privacy Policy | Data Use & User Rights"
description: "Read MetalBear’s Privacy Policy to learn how we collect, use, and protect your personal data, your rights, and our commitment to privacy on our platform."
lead: "MetalBear Privacy Policy"
tags:
  - legal
images: []
date: 2022-10-31T06:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2025-08-10T06:00:00+00:00
draft: false
weight: 50
contributors: []
---

# MetalBear Cloud Privacy Policy

**Last Updated:** July 31, 2025

This privacy policy ("Privacy Policy") governs how we, **MetalBear Tech Ltd.** (together, “MetalBear,” “we,” “our” or “us”) use, collect, and store Personal Data we collect or receive from or about you ("you") in connection with cloud-based platform services provided on <https://app.metalbear.co/> and our website available at <https://metalbear.co/> (together with the services, the “Site”) such as in the following use cases:

**(i)** When you browse, make use of, or interact with, our Site:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**a.** When you create an account and when you log in  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**b.** When you purchase or test our products and/or services  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**c.** When you publish reviews  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**d.** When you complete a survey  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**e.** When you contact us (e.g. customer support, need help, submit a request)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**f.** When you submit your job application  

**(ii)** When we acquire your Personal Data from third-party sources (such as lead-generation companies)  
**(iii)** When we use the Personal Data of our customers (e.g. contact details)  
**(iv)** When we use the Personal Data of our resellers, distributors, agents and/or finders (e.g. contact details)  
**(v)** When we use the Personal Data of our service providers (e.g. contact details)

We greatly respect your privacy, which is why we make every effort to provide a platform that would live up to the highest user privacy standards. Please read this Privacy Policy carefully, so you can understand our practices and your rights in relation to personal data.

“Personal Data” or “Personal Information” means any information that can be used, alone or together with other data, to uniquely identify any living human being and any information deemed as Personally Identifiable Information by privacy laws.

**Important note:** Nothing in this Privacy Policy is intended to limit in any way your statutory right, including your rights to a remedy or means of enforcement.

This Privacy Policy can be updated from time to time and, therefore, we ask you to check back periodically for the latest version. If we implement significant changes to the use of your Personal Data in a manner different from that stated at the time of collection, we will notify you by posting a notice on our Site or by other means. By using our Site, you agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy and to any collection, processing, and sharing of your Personal Data for the purposes detailed below. If you do not agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy, please do not enter or make any use of our Site.

---

## 1. CONSENT TO PERSONAL DATA DISCLOSURE AND CONSEQUENCES OF NON-DISCLOSURE

You are not obligated to provide us with Personal Data under any legal requirement. Any Personal Data you provide us, is given with your consent and your intention to use the Site. However, if you refuse to disclose the complete information or details requested, which are necessary for the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy, we may not be able to provide you with our services. Your use and/or registration for the Site indicate your consent to this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree to the terms set forth in this Privacy Policy, you are requested not to use the Site.

---

## 2. WHAT INFORMATION WE COLLECT, WHY WE COLLECT IT, AND HOW IT IS USED

### 2.(i) We Process the Following Personal Information:

**a.** Information provided when you register to the Site.  
**b.** Information provided when we process your job application.  
**c.** Information automatically collected.  
**d.** Information You Provide Directly to Us.  
**e.** Contact Information.  
**f.** Information from other sources.  
**g.** Information we collect from online interactions.

### 2.(ii) We Process Your Personal Information for the Following Purposes:

**a.** To create an account, log in and make use of the Site.  
**b.** For Administrative Purposes.  
**c.** For Recruitment and Employment.  
**d.** To Market the Site.  
**e.** Security purposes.  
**f.** De-identified and Aggregated Information Use.  
**g.** Cookies and Similar Technologies.  
**h.** For the purpose of sending information and updates.

---

## 3. HOW WE PROTECT AND RETAIN YOUR INFORMATION

### 3.(i) Security  
We have implemented appropriate technical, organizational and security measures designed to protect your Personal Data. However, please note that we cannot guarantee that the information will not be compromised as a result of unauthorized penetration to our servers. As the security of information depends in part on the security of the computer, device or network you use to communicate with us and the security you use to protect your user IDs and passwords, please make sure to take appropriate measures to protect this information. If you have any questions regarding security in the service or about confidentiality, you may contact us at **privacy@metalbear.co**.

### 3.(ii) Retention of your Personal Data  
Your information will be stored until we delete our records, and we proactively delete your Personal Information, or if you send a valid deletion request. Please note that in some circumstances we may store your information for longer periods of time, for example (i) where we are required to do so in accordance with legal, regulatory, tax or accounting requirements, or (ii) for us to have an accurate record of your dealings with us in the event of any complaints or challenges, and/or (iii) if we reasonably believe there is a prospect of litigation relating to your information or dealings.

---

## 4. HOW WE SHARE YOUR PERSONAL DATA

In addition to the recipients described above, we may share your Personal Data as follows:

**4.a** With our business partners with whom we jointly offer products or services. We may also share Personal Data with our affiliated companies and other third parties.

**4.b** We may use third party service providers to process your information for the purposes outlined above, including, without limitation:  
- With cloud service providers for hosting purposes;  
- With email providers, marketing, CRM, automation tools other similar tool providers and/or sales dialer software;  
- With SparkHire as a hiring management platform, to facilitate and manage recruitment processes;  
- With websites and web content creation platforms in order to help us manage our Site;  
- With analytic companies, in order to help us understand and analyze information we collect;  
- With billing companies.

**4.c** To the extent necessary, with regulators, courts or competent authorities, to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules (including, without limitation, federal, state or local laws), and requests of law enforcement, regulatory and other governmental agencies or if required to do so by court order.

**4.d** If, in the future, we sell or transfer, or we consider selling or transferring, some or all of our business, shares or assets to a third party, we will disclose your Personal Data to such third party (whether actual or potential) in connection with the foregoing events.

**4.e** In the event that we are acquired by, or merged with, a third party entity, or in the event of bankruptcy or a comparable event, we reserve the right to transfer, disclose or assign your Personal Data in connection with the foregoing events.

**4.f** Where you have provided your consent to us sharing or transferring your Personal Data (e.g., where you provide us with marketing consents or opt-in to optional additional services or functionality).

---

## 5. YOUR PRIVACY RIGHTS

You have the right to access to your Personal Data held by us. In certain cases, in accordance with applicable law, we may refuse to provide you with your Personal Data.

You have the right to request the rectification or the deletion of inaccurate Personal Data about you. We will promptly review your request and notify you of the actions taken, if any. You can exercise your rights by contacting us at **privacy@metalbear.co**. You may use an authorized agent to submit a request on your behalf if you provide the authorized agent written permission signed by you. You can also submit your request by a legal guardian.

To protect your privacy, we may take steps to verify your identity before fulfilling your request. Subject to legal and other permissible considerations, we will make every reasonable effort to honor your request promptly in accordance with applicable law or inform you if we require further information.

Marketing emails – opt-out: You may choose not to receive marketing email of this type by sending a single email with the subject “BLOCK” to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please note that the email must come from the email account you wish to block OR if you receive an unwanted email from us, you can use the unsubscribe link found at the bottom of the email to opt out of receiving future emails, and we will process your request within a reasonable time after receipt.

---

## 6. USE BY CHILDREN

We do not offer our products or services for use by children and, therefore, we do not knowingly collect information from, and/or about children under the age of 18. If you are under the age of 18, do not provide any information to us without the involvement of a parent or a guardian. In the event that we become aware that you provide information in violation of applicable privacy laws, we reserve the right to delete it. If you believe that we might have any such information, please contact us at **support@metalbear.co**.

---

## 7. INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA

In order to run our business and provide our Site to you, we may transfer Personal Data to certain countries around the world, including to our affiliates and service providers, many of whom are located outside of your jurisdiction. Therefore, your Personal Data may be processed in countries with privacy laws that are different from privacy laws in your country. Whenever Personal Data is transferred internationally, we ensure it is protected.

---

## 8. INTERACTION WITH THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS

We enable you to interact with third party Sites, mobile software applications and products or services that are not owned or controlled by us (each a “Third Party Service”). We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Third Party Services. Please be aware that Third Party Services can collect Personal Data from you. Accordingly, we encourage you to read the terms and conditions and privacy policies of each Third Party Service.

---

## 9. LOG FILES

We use log files. We use such information to analyze trends, administer the Site, track users’ movement around the Site, and gather demographic information.

---

## 10. ANALYTIC TOOLS

**Plausible.** The Site uses a tool called “Plausible” to collect information about use of the Site. Plausible collects information such as how often users visit this Site, what pages they visit when they do so, and what other websites they used prior to coming to this Site. We use the information we get from Plausible to maintain and improve the Site and our services. Plausible’s ability to use and share information collected by Plausible about your visits to this Site is restricted by the Plausible Terms of Service, available at <https://plausible.io/terms>, and Plausible Privacy Policy, available at <https://plausible.io/privacy> and the Data policy available at <https://plausible.io/data-policy>.

**PostHog.** The Site uses a tool called “PostHog” to collect information about use of the Site. PostHog collects information such as how often users visit this Site and what pages they visit when they do so. We use the information we get from PostHog to maintain and improve the Site and our services. PostHog’s ability to use and share information collected by PostHog about your visits to this Site is restricted by the PostHog Terms of Service, available at <https://posthog.com/terms>, and Privacy Notice, available at <https://posthog.com/privacy>. We reserve the right to remove or add new analytic tools.

---

## 11. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS APPLICABLE UNDER CALIFORNIA PRIVACY LAW

**California Privacy Rights:** California Civil Code Section 1798.83 permits our customers who are California residents to request certain information regarding our disclosure of Personal Information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes. To make such a request, please send an email to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please note that we are only required to respond to one request per customer each year.

**Our California Do Not Track Notice:** Do Not Track (“DNT”) is a privacy preference that users can set in certain web browsers. Please note that we do not respond to or honor DNT signals or similar mechanisms transmitted by web browser, but we may allow third parties, such as companies that provide us with analytics tools, to collect personally identifiable information about an individual consumer’s online activities over time and across different web sites when a consumer uses the services.

**Deletion Of Content From California Residents:** If you are a California resident under the age of 18 and a registered user, California Business and Professions Code Section 22581 permits you to remove content or Personal Information you have publicly posted. To remove, please send an email to **privacy@metalbear.co**. Please be aware that after removal you will not be able to restore removed content. In addition, such removal does not ensure complete or comprehensive removal of the content or Personal Information you have posted and that there may be circumstances in which the law does not require us to enable removal of content.

---

## 12. CONTACT US

If you have any questions, concerns or complaints regarding our compliance with this notice and the data protection laws, or if you wish to exercise your rights, we encourage you to first contact us at **privacy@metalbear.co**.
